Pre-signing transactions: Why you want it, why it doesn't work on present day Monero and what that means for applications on top. (#120)
comit-network/comit.network: blog/2021-06-29-transaction-presigning.md

---

> title: "Pre-signing transactions}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Pre-signing transactions"
```

---
title: "Pre-signing transactions for non-custodial blockchain protocols"
author: thomas
author_url: https://github.com/thomaseizinger
author_image_url: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/5486389
tags: [monero]
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<!-- TODO: Find a good image -->
<!-- <img alt="Blackboard" src={useBaseUrl('blog/assets/images/2021-06/monero-lesson.png')} /> -->

> Why you want it, why it doesn't work on present day Monero and what that means for applications on top.

Reviewer 2: To make this timeless you could add a version of Monero here.

Author: Do you mean saying something like "doesn't work on Monero 0.17"?

But that doesn't sound as nice :sweat_smile:

Reviewer: Add a footnote? :)

Reviewer 2: Yes, that was my thinking :)

Usually, signing and broadcasting is done by the same person.

When we talk about *pre-signing* a transaction, we deliberately separate these two steps.
We call it pre-signing because we create and therefore authorise the transfer of funds significantly earlier to broadcasting it.
In some situations, a pre-signed transaction might never be broadcasted but just acts as a fallback.

In summary, *pre-signing* as transaction can be thought of as "signing a transaction for later use".

## Why do you want transaction pre-signing?

The previous section already provided a hint: for certain protocols, we want a backup / fallback transaction that we can come back to in case the other party becomes uncooperative.
Consider a situation in which two parties fund a joint-output together.
On Monero, this would be an output whose spend and view keys have been created by adding the keys of two parties together.
To spend the coins locked in such an output, both parties need to collaborate to produce a valid signature.

The purpose of such a joint-output is manifold and depends on the protocol that is being implemented.

> For example, joint-outputs are at the core of technologies like the Lightning network on Bitcoin.

Reviewer 2: Nit: The whole thing is the name: `Lightning Network`

```suggestion
For example, joint-outputs are at the core of technologies like the Lightning Network on Bitcoin.
```

In a nutshell, if we want to provide a non-custodial trading solution where users can buy AND sell XMR for BTC, we need transaction pre-signing.

## It doesn't work on present day Monero

Unfortunately, it is not possible to efficiently implement pre-signing of transactions in present day Monero. 
The reason for that is very technical and we believe it can be fixed but likely requires a hard-fork.

Lucas recently [made an effort](/blog/2021/05/19/monero-transaction) in documenting the transaction structure and signature algorithms of Monero.
I'll try to reiterate the necessary concepts here but if you want more information on how things work, I suggest to take a look at Lucas' post.

To sign a transaction in Monero, one needs to choose ten other outputs that - together with the output you want to spend - form the ring for Monero's CLSAG algorithm.
These outputs are represented as what is called *key-offsets* for efficiency reasons.
For the ring itself, we need the public key of each output but public keys are relatively big in size.
32 bytes even in their compressed form to be precise.
Times 11, that would be 352 bytes *per input* just to represent the ring for the signature.

> To be more space efficient, we instead enumerate all outputs in the blockchain and create a list of offsets where the first element in the list is an absolute output index and all subsequent elements are relative to their previous index.

Reviewer: nit: `To be more space efficient, we instead enumerate` -> I find this "we" a bit misleading. This refers to the present day Monero implementation if I understand it correctly and this we is a general "we" as in "one". Maybe just change to "Monero"?

Author: I don't know how to explain this but I believe it is a fairly common style in describing algorithms and/or approaches to say `we`.

It is a nice way of including the reader in the walk-through of the solution.

Maybe @luckysori can explain this better.

This is what Monero calls *key-offsets*.
Storing the *key-offsets* within the transaction is much more space efficient because a) the values are much smaller and b) we can store them as variable length integers.

The problem is that this list of key-offsets is also incorporated into the transaction's signature hash.

Why is this a problem?
Imagine two transactions, `A` and `B`:

- `B` spends an output from `A` and we would like to pre-sign this spending transaction.
- To sign `B`, we need to compute the signature hash and run the CLSAG algorithm using this hash.
- To compute the signature hash, we need to come up with the key-offsets of our ring.
- To compute the key-offsets for the ring, we need to know, what the output index of `A` is.
- To know the output index of `A`, the transaction needs to be picked up by a miner and included in the blockchain.

Remember that the whole point of pre-signing `B` is that we have a transaction with valid signatures **prior** to the point of signing and broadcasting `A`.

> Because the key-offsets are included in the signature hash, we can't produce it up until the output we want to spend is included in the blockchain.

Reviewer 2: To close this section you could add one more sentence to repeat what you just said: 
e.g. 
```

Differently said: we cannot pre-sign transaction `B` which spends from transaction `A` before transaction `A` has been included in the blockchain.
```

## How to achieve pre-signing on Monero?

To sign a transaction using CLSAG, we don't actually need the key-offsets but the public keys these key-offsets point to!

> The public key of an output never changes, regardless of whether or not is has been included in the blockchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The public key of an output never changes, regardless of whether or not it has been included in the blockchain.
```

> To fix our pre-signing issue, we need to change how the signature hash of a transaction is being computed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix the pre-signing issue, we need to change how the signature hash of a transaction is being computed.
```
nit.

notes:
Or "this" - I would not call it our issue because it is not just our issue. I reckon here again it is a more general "our" as in the community, but at this point might it sound like we are the (only) ones having an issue here.

We cannot just remove the key-offsets from the transaction.

> It is important that the signature *commits*[^1] to the ring members that were used to create it.

Reviewer: I don't think this is a complete sentence - maybe a "that" too much?

Author: It is a complete sentence:

- It is important that the signature *commits*[^1] to the ring members.
- The ring members that were used to create it.

I can replace the 2nd one with `which` potentially.

At the moment though, we are *over-committing*.

Instead of hashing the list of key-offsets, we can just hash the actual ring members (i.e. the public keys) instead. 
Those remain unchanged, regardless of which outputs are already included in the blockchain.
The key-offsets would still remain part of the transaction to retain the space-efficient look-up algorithm of the ring members.

Unfortunately, this change requires a hard-fork of Monero.
Changing how the signature hash is computed will make transactions from new clients appear invalid for an old client.

## What does this mean for applications on top?

> It is our assumption that anything that relies on joint-outputs and pre-signing spending transactions doesn't actually work on present day Monero. 

Reviewer: nit: Maybe you could change a few we/our in the post to Monero/Monero-impl (...). 
This "our assumption" actually refers to the COMIT team I think, but most of the other we/our are a more general referral to the community or "someone". I think we could be a bit clearer there to avoid confusion.

Author: I see what you mean but I am not sure if I agree that it is an issue. I'd prefer to keep the rest of the article the way it is and change this one. Suggestions for what to say here?

Author: Thanks for the input. I've decided to leave it as is.

> We haven't done an extensive analysis on what this affects but our guess is that this applies to at least anything Layer2 but likely also other blockchain protocols developed for Monero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We haven't done an extensive analysis on what this affects but our guess is that this applies to at least anything Layer2 but likely also to other blockchain protocols developed for Monero.
```

or "concerns" instead of "applies to" and no "to"s

Most "interesting" blockchain protocols today work on the basis of a joint-owned output whose spending transactions have game-theoretic elements to it like learning a secret value. 
As long as we want to remain trustless, we have to create valid spending transactions before the actual output gets mined, otherwise we are dependent on cooperating with the other party to unlock our funds.

## What is next

For the moment, our hands are tied here.
We cannot implement selling of XMR for BTC in our tool due to this limitation.

We are already in contact with the Monero community and have raised our issue with some developers.

> As part of that, we learned that the next hard-fork will introduce changes in how key-offsets work anyway because the anonymity set is being enlarged.

Reviewer 2: You could refer to the ticket which proposes some sort of tx chaining: 

https://github.com/monero-project/research-lab/issues/84

---
title: "Pre-signing transactions for non-custodial blockchain protocols"
author: thomas
author_url: https://github.com/thomaseizinger
author_image_url: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/5486389
tags: [monero]
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<!-- TODO: Find a good image -->
<!-- <img alt="Blackboard" src={useBaseUrl('blog/assets/images/2021-06/monero-lesson.png')} /> -->

Why you want it, why it doesn't work on present day[^1] Monero and what that means for applications on top.

<!--truncate-->

> In this blog post, we are going to explore the topic of *pre-signing* transactions with a focus on present day Monero.

Author: It has nothing to do with adaptor signatures though?

> In this blog post, we are going to explore the topic of *pre-signing* transactions with a focus on present day Monero.

Author: I think transaction chaining is sometimes used. I don't want to change the whole post now though :sweat_smile:

> In this blog post, we are going to explore the topic of *pre-signing* transactions with a focus on present day Monero.

Reviewer 3: My point is that "pre-signing" has been used in crypto literature to refer to adaptor signatures (e.g. https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/476.pdf).

I agree that changing the wording here might be too painful, but we could just mention the other meaning.

General knowledge of how blockchains work is assumed.

## What is transaction *pre-signing*?

Signing a transaction is how users in a blockchain network authorise the transfer of funds to a new owner.
Often, it is desirable to delay this authorisation for as long as possible because it can never be taken back.
Once a transaction is signed, anyone - not just the original owner - can broadcast the transaction and get it included in the blockchain.
Usually, signing and broadcasting is done by the same person.

When we talk about *pre-signing* a transaction, we deliberately separate these two steps.
We call it pre-signing because we create and therefore authorise the transfer of funds significantly earlier to broadcasting it.
In some situations, a pre-signed transaction might never be broadcasted but just acts as a fallback.

> In summary, *pre-signing* as transaction can be thought of as "signing a transaction for later use".

Author: Fair enough, I'll need to slightly reword that.

## Why do you want transaction pre-signing?

The previous section already provided a hint: for certain protocols, we want a backup / fallback transaction that we can come back to in case the other party becomes uncooperative.
Consider a situation in which two parties fund a joint-output together.
On Monero, this would be an output whose spend and view keys have been created by adding the keys of two parties together.
To spend the coins locked in such an output, both parties need to collaborate to produce a valid signature.

> The purpose of such a joint-output is manifold and depends on the protocol that is being implemented.

Author: Well, I hope one can :joy:

> The purpose of such a joint-output is manifold and depends on the protocol that is being implemented.

Reviewer 3: Haha I had a look. I thought it was manyfold or many-fold, but it looks like your way is correct.

We cannot just remove the key-offsets from the transaction.
It is important that the signature *commits*[^2] to the ring members that were used to create it.
At the moment though, we are *over-committing*.

Instead of hashing the list of key-offsets, we can just hash the actual ring members (i.e. the public keys) instead. 
Those remain unchanged, regardless of which outputs are already included in the blockchain.
The key-offsets would still remain part of the transaction to retain the space-efficient look-up algorithm of the ring members.

Unfortunately, this change requires a hard-fork of Monero.
Changing how the signature hash is computed will make transactions from new clients appear invalid for an old client.

## What does this mean for applications on top?

It is our assumption that anything that relies on joint-outputs and pre-signing spending transactions doesn't actually work on present day Monero. 
We haven't done an extensive analysis on what this affects but our guess is that this applies to at least anything Layer2 but likely also to other blockchain protocols developed for Monero.

> Most "interesting" blockchain protocols today work on the basis of a joint-owned output whose spending transactions have game-theoretic elements to it like learning a secret value. 

Reviewer 3: :wrench: Wrong tense.
```suggestion
Most "interesting" blockchain protocols today work on the basis of a joint-owned output whose spending transactions have game-theoretic elements to them like learning a secret value. 
```

Reviewer 3: :question: Also, is learning a secret value related to game theory? I thought that game theory in blockchain protocols had to do with leveraging the incentives of parties to perform certain actions. I would maybe just say:
```suggestion
Most "interesting" blockchain protocols today work on the basis of a joint-owned output with spending transactions which leak secrets when broadcast. 
```
